# Track - Daily Journal and Log (Python)

=> https://github.com/milofultz/track Check out the up-to-date version on GitHub

I wanted to have a way to track my mood and accomplishments over time, keep track of my priority for the next day, as well as a basic journaling platform that was not pretentious or leading. Seemed like a good project and I had seen a few people on merveilles.town making some fun CLI tools in this vein, so I took a swing at it.  Inspo from lon by dstn.

=> http://merveilles.town
=> https://github.com/0xdstn/lon lon by dstn

* Tracks mood, accomplishments, journal entries, and MIT for next day
* Saves data in an easy to read plaintext file in the root folder called `~/.track`
* Integrates with Tod to pull in completed accomplishments
* Allows pulling of MIT into Tod's task list

=> 2020-10-17-tod-python.html Tod


## Usage

On prompting, input:

* Your mood on a 1-5 scale.
* Your accomplishments for the day. When finished, leave the line blank and press enter.
* Your most important task for the next day.
* A 50 character or less summary of your day.
* A longer journal entry of anything you feel is relevant.

This will save this data into a file named `.track` in your root folder, formatted like so:

```
---
20201011 (4) Spend time on programming, exercise, and work.

* Write daily tracker program
* Exercise with 1.5hr walk
* Brainstorm programming projects
* Vote in election

> Prepare for next week and resolve all open tasks

I walked farther south than I have since moving here, and I really like how quiet
the side streets are.

Been listening to vogue ball playlists all night.
```

